## Amy Langston

Hi everyone, I'm a graduate student at the University of Florida. I'm a plant ecologist in an engironmental engineering program and will be graduating with my PhD in ~~August~~ December. My research focuses on the effects of climate change on coastal forests in FL, particularly black mangrove (*Avicennia germinans*) forests, which are expanding poleward, and freshwater forests dominated by cabbage palm (*Sabal palmetto*), which are retreating landward. I hail from California, which has neither mangroves nor freshwater forest wetlands, so I've enjoyed studying new ecosystems.

My **goal** for attending the NEON Data Institute is to develop computational and programming skills to be able to evaluate the effects of climate change on vegetation across landscapes over time. My background is primarily field-based, which means I tend to do research that is rather localized, and I want to be able to expand my work to larger geographic scales.

## Capstone Project
My idea for my capstone project, which I'm still flushing out, is to do something with vegetation, temperature, and precipitation data. I would like to focus on plant phenology but the datasets are still pretty new, so I think I'd like to do some comparisons between vegetation structure and cover over time to compare to temperature and preciptation trends in two places with very different elevations: FL and CO. I can use NEON data and will probably need to supplement with aerial imagery, vegetation data from state agencies, and temp and precip data from NOAA.