# Adam T. Naito

## Background and domains of interest
As a geographer and landscape ecologist, I integrate field work, Geographic Information Systems, remote sensing, and simulation modeling to improve our understanding of landscape-scale changes in vegetation and its implications for cross-scale interactions and ecosystem services in terrestrial systems. My work has spanned multiple environments, including the montane forests of northern California, Arctic Alaska, the Appalachian Mountains, and Southwestern rangelands. Undergraduate student involvement has been critical to the success of these endeavors. I am currently a postdoctoral research associate under the supervision of **Dr. Steven R. Archer** in the **School of Natural Resources and the Environment** at the **University of Arizona**. I manage a four-year USDA-NIFA-funded project that investigates the long-term costs and benefits of brush management (BM, tools used to reduce woody cover) on ecosystem services (e.g., plant diversity, primary production, carbon sequestration potential, erosion and runoff, carbon exchange) on a rangeland ecosystem on the Santa Rita Experimental Range (SRER) which is encroached by velvet mesquite (*Prosopis velutina*). Field data, combined with remotely sensed data from an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), will be used to parameterize computer simulation models to predict long-term ecosystem responses and provide for more effective cost-benefit analyses to BM.
***

## Goal for the NEON Data Institute 2017
A recent Nature.com e-alert referred readers to a collection of pages highlighting grave concerns in the scientific community regarding scientific rigour and reproductibility in published articles. Links to similar topics published by Nature were also part of our reading materials for Week 1. As scientists responsible for analyzing and managing ever-growing volumes of data, we need to ensure that our work can be readily shared to ensure the highest standards and that the public can continue to trust us and our work. We therefore need have the tools and skillsets to facilitate this process. I am hoping that my exposure to Python, GitHub, and Jupyter in the context of this Data Institute will provide a foundation for me to better document, manage, and analyze the massive datasets that I am generating from the project I describe above.
***

## Capstone Project
The UAV component of the project described above, as well as the availability of high-resolution LIDAR data for our study area at SRER afford unique opportunities for quantifying spatio-temporal variations in vegetation cover and structure, as well as aboveground biomass at landscape- or watershed-scales. For example, one component of our project involves the development of 3-D models of velvet mesquite derived from LIDAR, as well as ground-based and UAV-based photography. By validating these models with field-based morphologic measures and estimates of live and total biomass from destructive harvesting of mesquite at a nearby research site, we will be in a better position to develop a procedure for estimating total aboveground woody biomass while reducing the need for time-intensive field-based studies. As SRER is also a NEON Field Site, there will likely be many opportunities to leverage our efforts with NEON’s long-term monitoring efforts via field studies and the Airborne Observation Platform (AOP). Since AOP data products are not yet available for SRER, I would like to use the skills I develop during my involvement with the Data Institute to develop a workflow and analyze a small-scale dataset that will serve as a template for the work described above. Using NEON-generated LIDAR data available by request from Harvard Forest in 2014 and 2016, I would like to be able to extract point clouds representing individual trees. Using ancillary 2014 field data that hopefully comprises species information, as well as allometric equations for common tree species (e.g., Ter-Mikaelian et al. 1997, Jenkins et al. 2003), I will use morphologic measures (e.g., diameter at breast height, canopy area) derived from the point clouds to estimate aboveground biomass in 2014. I will repeat this process for 2016 to estimate changes in aboveground biomass. 
If time, I would consider exploring how soil type might influence changes in biomass of individual species, or if negative changes in biomass are the result of declining plant health. I could derive soil data from SSURGO via the USDA NRCS Data Gateway, and I could use the NDVI data derived from the AOP data packages to infer plant health.
All data and workflows will be managed, documented, and run using GitHub and Jupyter Notebooks.

To reiterate, the necessary data products will include:
* LIDAR data from AOP flights over Harvard Forest in 2014 and 2016.
* Field-based data from Harvard Forest, hopefully acquired and made available by NEON, to facilitate identification of tree species.
* Allometric equations from literature that describe one or more identifiable tree species.
* If time, SSURGO soils data to study contrasts in biomass changes across soil types.
* If time, NDVI data from AOP flights over Harvard Forest to determine an association between plant health and biomass changes.

