#Nate Looker

##Biography
Originally from Des  Moines, Iowa, I'm currently finishing my first year as a Ph.D. student in Land and Atmospheric Science at the University of Minnesota. My dissertation research addresses how land use and landform interact to influence soil hydrologic functioning in the volcanic highlands of eastern Mexico. I received a master's degree in Ecology from Montana State University in Bozeman, where I studied conifer ecophysiology. When not conducting fieldwork in montane environments, I spend as much time as possible getting lost in them, be it skiing, running, or bushwhacking. I'd prefer to have my code not be as chaotic as my recreational activities, though, so I'm looking forward to learning reproducible approaches to data management and analysis at NEON this summer.

***
##Capstone Project

Vegetation structure often reflects long-term hydrologic conditions and, in turn, influences the partitioning of rainfall into vertical (evapotranspiration and infiltration) and lateral fluxes. Terrain complexity may interact with climatic conditions to accentuate these ecohydrologic feedbacks. General features of these relationships may be characterized as simple functions of remotely sensed vegetation and terrain attributes (e.g., the Hydrologic Vegetation Gradient, *sensu* Hwang et al. 2012, WRR). Using NDVI and EVI and the digital terrain and canopy height models from NEON AOP flights, as well as ground-based data on vegetation structure and coarser resolution digital elevation models (e.g., USGS products), I propose an analysis of the interplay between physiography and vegetation across local and continental gradients of water availability. Of the sites that currently have AOP data, I will select woodland-dominated locations across a range of precipitation/potential evapotranspiration (which I will calculate with field data, as available): the D17 sites in central California, the Great Smokey Mountains National Park relocatable site in Tennessee and North Carolina, and the D03 sites in Florida. The general workflow I intend to follow involves calculating terrain indices using a digital terrain model for each site and then assessing relationships between NDVI and terrain attributes at multiple scales of spatial aggregation (e.g., expanding the neighborhood for which terrain indices are calculated or averaging index values across process domains of increasing size, such as nested watersheds).
